In this video, I'm going to show you how to
clean up your Gmail inbox fast and easily. By
the end of this video, you'll be in possession
of a rare and valuable thing: the empty inbox,
with no mailing lists cluttering things up
and an easy way to keep your inbox clean in
the future. Now, I know that's promising a
lot, but we're going to make it happen all
in this video, so just make sure you
watch until the very end. Let's go!
So I'll show you two ways to clean up your
inbox: the quick and lazy 5-second way,
and the smart way. Now, both work, but I'd stick
around for the smart way because you'll set it up
once and then your inbox will stay clean far
into the future. And now, for the quickest,
laziest way to clean your inbox, we'll just bulk
archive all of your emails at once. To do this,
check the box in the upper left to select all
emails on the page, and then click “select all
conversations” if that link appears. From here,
you can click the archive button to archive
everything at once. And if you archive all of your
emails, it'll empty out your inbox completely,
but you'll still be able to access all of your
mail in “All Mail” and search for them. So that's
the 5-second solution, and you could do that,
but I don't really recommend this because it
just sweeps the mess under the rug and you
might still need to deal with some of these
emails still. Also, it'll just fill right back up
again, and you'll have to keep clearing it out.
So now I'm going to show you the five-step process
to clean up your inbox the right way. One thing
you can do to make an immediate impact on your
inbox without archiving or deleting anything
is to open up “Settings,” “See All Settings,”
and then open “Inbox” and then check the box to
turn on the “Updates” category and then click
“Save Changes.” When you do this, you'll see
that your inbox is a lot smaller now, and now
we have this new “Updates” category here. Now,
this is going to pull in some newsletters
as well as receipts and transaction notices
you might receive. Basically, anything
that's a notification or update email
is going to now get pulled into here
instead of cluttering up your inbox,
so it cleans things up quite a bit. Having
updates turned on helps, but there are probably
a lot of mailing list emails still cluttering
up your inbox. We'll take care of those next.
The first thing we'll do is search for the word
"unsubscribe." This will pull up every email in
your account with an unsubscribe link in
it. Most mailing lists provide a link so
you can unsubscribe, so this will instantly
give us all of those emails. Pretty clever,
right? Then from here, click “Advanced Search,”
“Create Filter.” Now we can decide what to do
with all of these emails, both already in your
inbox and ones you might be receiving in the
future. So what we'll do is we'll have them skip
the inbox, and then we'll check “Apply the Label,”
click “Choose Label,” click “New Label,” and
then type “Subscriptions” for the label name,
then click “Create.” Now, very important, we
want to make sure we check “Also Apply Filter
to Matching Conversations,” so it'll archive and
label all of the subscriptions we already have in
our inbox, and then click “Create Filter.” Now
on the left, you'll see a folder with all the
subscriptions you have. Now, if you have a lot
of subscriptions, it might take a few minutes.
Your inbox should be significantly smaller, and
now even better, all of your subscriptions will
automatically skip your inbox and show up here
under “Subscriptions” from now on. How many emails
do you have in your subscriptions folder? Leave a
comment below and let us know just how bad it was.
Now, whatever's left in here, we can thin
this out even more if there are emails
we don't want to see in here. First of all,
if you want to mute specific email threads,
you can always right-click on any conversation
and click "Mute." This will cause those emails
to stop showing up in your inbox, and they'll
be archived automatically, and it just affects
the one email thread at a time, not emails with
other subject lines from the same sender. Now,
if you want to hide all emails from any
particular address, just right-click any
email from the sender and click "Find Emails from
that Sender," and then you can click “Advanced
Search,” “Create Filter,” and from here you
can decide whether it should skip the inbox,
get a label, or just be deleted. So if you need
to set up some additional filters to take care
of the recurring emails that weren't
pulled into updates or subscriptions,
now at this point whatever is in your inbox should
be mostly things that are pretty important to you.
So to take care of what's left in your inbox
we're going to set up just two additional
folders. First, we'll click the plus next to
"Labels" and create a label called “To-Do,” then
create another label called “Saved for Later.”
How this works now is everything that requires
you to take some sort of action or you need to
respond, just drag those emails to the "To-Do"
folder so they don't get lost in the clutter, and
now you'll be able to see exactly how many things
you need to take action on at any given time.
It becomes like a to-do list for yourself right
within your email. Now for everything else, we'll
just assume it's old email you want to hang on to,
so we're going to select all emails, select
all conversations, and then drag them right
to the “Saved for Later” folder. Now, in the
future, any emails that you want to hang on to
and not get lost in your archive in “All Mail,”
we're going to stash those emails in “Saved for
Later” to indicate that you've reviewed them
and processed them and don't need to see them
anymore. And boom! Just like that, we are now at
inbox zero. Congratulations on taming the beast!
By the way, if you're getting value out of
this video, hit like, subscribe, and tap the
notification icon to get more valuable content
like this. Of course, we've only dealt with the
immediate problem of decluttering your inbox,
but more emails will be coming in at some point,
hopefully far less now that we set some filters
up, but you'll need a strategy to deal with the
new ones that come in. It's a simple three-step
process. When you check your email from now on:
step one, anything you need to take action on
immediately goes in your “To-Do” folder. Step two,
anything you don't want to keep, you
just remove it immediately—delete it,
mute it, or set up a filter to ignore that
sender. Step three, everything you want to
save gets taken out of your inbox and put
right into the “Saved for Later” folder,
and that way you can still get to it quickly, but
it won't get lost among your subscriptions and
updates in the archive. That's it, just three
steps when you check your email from now on:
to-do, remove, and save for later. This is
going to keep your inbox empty from now on.
Now, if you want to stop here, you can,
but wouldn't it be nice if subscriptions
had stuff you actually cared about in
it? So we can open up subscriptions
and anything you don't want to keep, just use
the unsubscribe button that Gmail shows you,
or open the email itself and find the
unsubscribe link. Then you'll right-click
the email and choose "Find Emails from the
Sender," then select all emails on the page,
select all conversations if that link shows up,
and you can either delete them or report spam if
you never signed up for them to begin with. Just
unsubscribe from as many as you want at a time
until you get rid of all the ones you don't
want. That's how you keep your inbox clean.
Now, if you want to do any of these steps
on your phone, it is possible to do that,
but you'll need to open up the desktop version
of Gmail on your phone. There's a link below for
how to do that. So now you've tamed the beast, and
you've reached inbox zero, and that's a huge deal,
but there are still a few things you can do
from here that will unlock new abilities in
Gmail that you didn't even know were possible.
I've got some of the hottest tips for Gmail,
and you'll definitely want to check those out in
this video right here. I hope you've learned a few
things. Again, let us know in the comments below
just how many emails you started with. It's kind
of fun to see how bad it can get. Thanks for
watching, and I'll see you in this next video.
[Music]